Step 1: Project Setup

Initialize the Project:
Create a new React app using create-react-app.
Set up a new GitHub repository and push the initial code.
Install required dependencies:
redux, react-redux for state management.
react-router-dom for routing.
json-server for a mock backend.
axios for making HTTP requests.
Set Up JSON Server:
Create a db.json file in the root directory.
Define the structure for storing users, shopping lists, and items:
json
Copy code
{
  "users": [],
  "shoppingLists": []
}
Start the JSON server with the command: json-server --watch db.json --port 5000.
Configure Redux:
Set up the Redux store and slices for user management and shopping lists.
Create actions and reducers for handling authentication, profile updates, and CRUD operations on shopping lists.


Step 2: Authentication & User Management

Login & Registration Pages:
UI Design:
Create simple, responsive forms for login and registration.
Functionality:
On registration, hash the user's password before storing it in the JSON server.
Implement user login functionality by verifying credentials against stored data.
Protected Routes:
Set up protected routes using react-router-dom that restrict access to the home and profile pages based on authentication status.
Profile Management:

Profile Page:
Allow users to view and update their profile information.
Updating Login Credentials:
Provide functionality to update the email, password, and other user details.
Encrypt the updated password before saving.


Step 3: Shopping List Management

Add Shopping Lists:
UI Design:
Create a form for adding new shopping lists with fields for name, quantity, notes, category, and an option to upload images.
Functionality:
Use Redux to manage the addition of new shopping lists.
Persist data in the db.json file using Axios for POST requests.
View Shopping Lists:

UI Design:
Display all shopping lists in a user-friendly layout.
Functionality:
Fetch and display all shopping lists created by the user.
Allow users to click on a list to view its details.
Edit Shopping Lists:

UI Design:
Allow users to edit existing shopping lists.
Functionality:
Update the list data in the db.json file through PUT requests.
Delete Shopping Lists:

UI Design:
Include a delete button next to each shopping list.
Functionality:
Implement delete functionality using DELETE requests to remove lists from the db.json file.
Search & Sort Shopping Lists:

Search Functionality:
Add a search bar to filter shopping lists by name.
Update the URL to reflect the search query and ensure the page updates accordingly.
Sorting Functionality:
Implement sorting by name, category, and date added.
Ensure the sorting is reflected in the URL.
Sharing Shopping Lists:

Feature Implementation:
Allow users to share shopping lists via a link or export as a file.


Step 4: User Interface & Accessibility

Responsive Design:
Ensure the app is responsive across all specified breakpoints (320px, 480px, 768px, 1024px, 1200px).
Use media queries to adjust layouts and ensure usability on different screen sizes.
Interactive Elements:
Implement hover effects for clickable elements.
Ensure the cursor changes to a pointer on hover for interactive elements.


Step 5: Performance Optimization

Code Splitting & Lazy Loading:
Implement code splitting using React's lazy and Suspense to optimize the app's performance.
Load components asynchronously where appropriate.
State Management:
Optimize Redux usage to avoid unnecessary re-renders and ensure smooth performance.


Step 6: Security & Privacy

Encryption:
Ensure that all user credentials are properly encrypted before storing them.
Handle decryption securely when users log in.

Protected Routing:
Ensure that non-logged-in users cannot access protected routes.
Implement proper session management, possibly using JWT tokens for secure login sessions.


Step 7: Documentation & Deployment

GitHub Readme:
Document the project in the GitHub README file, including setup instructions, features, and usage details.
Final Testing:

Thoroughly test the application to ensure all functionalities work as expected.
Conduct both manual and automated tests.
Deployment:

Deploy the app to a hosting platform like Vercel or Netlify.
Deploy the JSON server backend separately or as a combined deployment if necessary.

Step 6: Security & Privacy

INPUT: email, password, name, surname, cell number
ENCRYPT password
STORE user data with encrypted password in db.json

When User Logs In:
INPUT: email, password
RETRIEVE encrypted password from db.json
COMPARE provided password with stored encrypted password
IF match THEN
   GRANT access
ELSE
   DENY access

Protected Routing:

Check Authentication on Protected Routes:
FOR each protected route
   IF user is NOT logged in THEN
      REDIRECT to login page
   ELSE
      ALLOW access to the route

Session Management:
ON successful login
   CREATE JWT token
   STORE token in local storage/cookies
   ATTACH token to protected requests

ON server-side
   VALIDATE token for protected resource requests
   IF valid THEN
      GRANT access
   ELSE
      DENY access

7. Documentation & Deployment

CREATE README.md
ADD Project Title
ADD Description
ADD Features
ADD Setup Instructions
ADD Usage Details
ADD Technologies Used
ADD Deployment Information
ADD Future Enhancements
